This lab went a lot better than the leaflet one, perhaps not in the subject, but definitely in lab section. Carl was incredibly helpful, knowing that this lab would require more individual attention than the leaflet example. While the quiz doesn’t have anything to do with this, I kind of like the idea of thinking about our code and answering questions. It makes me really feel confident about D3 when I can do stuff like that on my own.

I think that a lab section could be dedicated to finding data, and working with topojson command line. After using mapshaper, geojson.io, and shape escape, I came to the conclusion I should have started with command line the entire time. It would also prevent the problem I noticed that several of the aforementioned sites were crashing because of the amount of people trying to convert their data. Also, a myriad of these tools remove the attribute data. 

Going on the lab handout, I felt that the information was pretty well displayed. Carl's explanations of what a SVG is and helpful tutorials and books he showed us that were available made learning d3 initially on our own simple. However, adding extra operators as I did was slightly difficult because of the documentation requiring a lot of in depth exploration on my own. 

In the handout, it would be very helpful to have a FAQ section because it seemed like Carl would spend the first 15 minutes of lab section going over common errors and problems. Being reminded where I can find the answer to a solution Carl talked about or a reminder about certain things (the difference between center and rotate for the map for instance) would be immensely helpful.

The hardest part for me was adding the dynamic attribute and tying the chart and map together. I also had a lot of trouble in dealing with the popups, because of a finicky error in D3. I don’t think there’s a way to explain it any easier, but maybe breaking up the text into not being paragraph form would help highlight things that are important.

A lot of 'Aha!' moments came from having errors and working through what they were, either independently, with classmates, or Carl's help. D3 is extremely finicky, so I view going through this entire lab to be a giant 'Aha!' moment. Learning this as a student is such a valuable skill that throughout the entire lab I felt like I was actively learning.  